= RightScale Repo Resource

== DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook provides abstract 'repo' resource for managing code download from GIT, SVN or ROS code repositories.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale-managed RightImage.
* Ros implementation requires the 'rightscale::install_tools' recipe

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>rightscale</tt>
* <tt>repo_svn</tt>
* <tt>repo_git</tt>
* <tt>repo_ros</tt>

cookbooks must be present in ServerTemplate repository

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Place repo::default recipe into your runlist to setup the repo resource.
  When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, this will also automatically add the required attributes to your ServerTemplate inputs.

* Add 'repo' resource call in your recipe and provide all required parameters.

* Add 'destination' and 'action' attributes to your 'repo' resource.

* Set desired action for your 'repo' resource

  It can be :pull or :capistrano_pull

  :pull - perform basic 'repo' action, just pulling your code from remote repo.

  :capistrano_pull - performs pulling and backup of your code.

  For code implementation examples look at <b>LWRP's</b> section of this readme

== DETAILS:

=== General

This cookbook is intended to be used in conjunction with cookbooks that contain
Lightweight Providers which implement the 'repo' interface. See the RightScale
repo_git cookbook for an example.

=== Attributes

All attributes in this cookbook are generally used to assign values for corresponding <tt>repo</tt> LWRP attribute.

All attributes in this cookbook has inputs except <b>Additional capistrano attributes</b> which are used internally in recipes.

===== Common attributes

* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:destination]</tt> - Path to where project repo will be pulled. Example: "/tmp/repo"
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:repository]</tt> - The URL of your svn or git repository where your application code will be checked out.
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:revision]</tt> -  Remote repo Branch, Tag or revision. Default is:"HEAD"
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:provider]</tt> - A repository provider: repo_git for Git, repo_svn for SVN or repo_ros for Remote Object Store. Default is:"repo_git"
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:perform_action]</tt> - The type pull action which will be performed, 'pull'- standard repo pull, 'capistrano_pull' standard pull and then capistrano deployment style will be applied. Default is: "pull"

===== SVN attributes

* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:svn_username]</tt> - Username for SVN repository.
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:svn_password]</tt> - Password for SVN repository.

===== GIT attributes

* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:ssh_key]</tt> - The private SSH key of the git repository.

===== ROS attributes

* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:storage_account_provider]</tt> - Location where the source file is saved. Used by recipes to upload to Amazon S3 or Rackspace Cloud Files. Default is:"S3"
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:storage_account_id]</tt> -  Cloud storage account ID required to access specified cloud storage location.
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:storage_account_secret]</tt> - Cloud storage account secret required to access specified cloud storage location.
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:container]</tt> - The cloud storage location where source project repo is located. For Amazon S3, use the bucket name. For Rackspace Cloud Files, use the container name.
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:prefix]</tt> - Filename of required source repository archive. Ex: source.tar.gz

===== Additional capistrano attributes

* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:environment]</tt> - A hash of the form {"ENV_VARIABLE"=>"VALUE"} ({})
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:symlinks]</tt> - An array of paths, relative to app root, to be removed from a checkout before symlinking. Default is:({})
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:purge_before_symlink]</tt> - An array of paths, relative to app root, to be removed from a checkout before symlinking. Default is: %w{}
* <tt>node[:repo][:default][:create_dirs_before_symlink]</tt> - Directories to create before symlinking. Runs after purge_before_symlink. Default is: %w{}

=== Templates:
 none

=== Definitions:

<b>capistranize_repo</b>

Definition used to create Capistrano style project deployment.
More info about capistrano you can find at http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Deploy+Resource#DeployResource-TheDeployStrategies

Parameters:

All parameters in this definition are linked to corresponding attributes. However if you use this definition for your own purposes you can redefine them. See example below.

* <tt>:destination</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:destination]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:repository</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:repository]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:revision</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:revision]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:svn_username</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:svn_username]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:svn_password</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:svn_password]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:app_user</tt> - User wich will be owner of created project deployment.
* <tt>:environment</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:environment]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:create_dirs_before_symlink</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:create_dirs_before_symlink]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:purge_before_symlink</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:purge_before_symlink]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:symlinks</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:symlinks]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.
* <tt>:scm_provider</tt> - Receive value of corresponding attribute. See <tt>node[:repo][:default][:provider]</tt> in attributes section of this readme.

Example:

  capistranize_repo "Source repo" do
    repository                 your_repository_variable
    revision                   revision_variable
    destination                destination_variable
    app_user                   app_user_variable
    purge_before_symlink       purge_before_symlink_variable
    create_dirs_before_symlink create_dirs_before_symlink_variable
    symlinks                   symlinks_variable
    scm_provider               scm_provider_variable
    environment                environment_variable
  end


=== Libraries-helpers:
 none

=== LWRPs:
==== Resources
This cookbook provides abstract <tt>repo</tt> resource. Which will be used to call existing or user defined LightWeight repo_* providers.

For now we have repo_ros, repo_git and repo_svn cookbooks. Each of them contain implementation of corresponding repo_* LightWeight Provider
which can be called using this resource.

===== Actions:
<tt>:pull</tt>
Standard repo pull. Your source code repository will be pulled from remote url to specified destination.

<tt>:capistrano_pull</tt>
Perform standard pull and then capistrano deployment style will be applied.

===== Attributes:

* <tt>destination</tt> - Path to where project repo will be pulled

* <tt>repository</tt> - Repository Url

* <tt>revision</tt> - Remote repo Branch or revision

* <tt>svn_username</tt> - Subversion username

* <tt>svn_password</tt> - Subversion password

* <tt>svn_arguments</tt> - Extra arguments passed to the subversion command

* <tt>ssh_key</tt> - Git ssh key

* <tt>app_user</tt> - System user to run the deploy as

* <tt>purge_before_symlink</tt> - An array of paths, relative to app root, to be removed from a checkout before symlinking

* <tt>create_dirs_before_symlink</tt> - Directories to create before symlinking. Runs after purge_before_symlink

* <tt>symlinks</tt> - A hash that maps files in the shared directory to their paths in the current release

* <tt>environment</tt> - A hash of the form {"ENV_VARIABLE"=>"VALUE"}

* <tt>prefix</tt> - The prefix that will be used to name/locate the backup of a particular code repo.

* <tt>storage_account_provider</tt> - Location where dump file will be saved. Used by dump recipes to back up to Amazon S3 or Rackspace Cloud Files.

* <tt>container</tt> - The cloud storage location where the dump file will be restored from. For Amazon S3, use the bucket name. For Rackspace Cloud Files, use the container name.

* <tt>storage_account_id</tt> - In order to read/write the container file to the specified cloud storage location, you need to provide cloud authentication credentials.
For Amazon S3, use your Amazon access key ID (e.g., cred:AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID). For Rackspace Cloud Files, use your Rackspace login username (e.g., cred:RACKSPACE_USERNAME).

* <tt>storage_account_secret</tt> - In order to read/write the container file to the specified cloud storage location, you will need to provide cloud authentication credentials.
For Amazon S3, use your AWS secret access key (e.g., cred:AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY). For Rackspace Cloud Files, use your Rackspace account API key (e.g., cred:RACKSPACE_AUTH_KEY).

* <tt>unpack_source</tt> - Unpack downloaded source or not Source file must be kind of tar archive Default: false

===== Usage Example:

:pull

  repo "default" do
    destination "/tmp/repo"
    action :pull
  end

:capistrano_pull

  repo "default" do
    destination "/tmp/repo"
    action :capistrano_pull
    app_user                    'rightscale' #owner of created repo directories
    purge_before_symlink        %w{tmp} #An array of paths, relative to app root, to be removed from a checkout before symlinking
    create_dirs_before_symlink  %w{log dir2}  #A hash that maps files in the shared directory to their paths in the current release
    symlinks                    ({}) #A hash that maps files in the shared directory to their paths in the current release
    environment                 ({}) #A hash of the form {'ENV_VARIABLE'=>'VALUE'}
  end

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
