= RightScale Apache/HAProxy Load Balancer Cookbook 

== DESCRIPTION:

This is RightScale's load balancer cookbook for Apache/HAProxy. 

This cookbook provides recipes for setting up and running an Apache/HAProxy load
balancer server as well as recipes for attaching and detaching application
servers to and from load balancers. There is also support for automatically
detecting and reconfiguring when an application server has disappeared or
reappeared without attaching itself.

== DETAILS:

The load balancer and application server attach/detach recipes are designed so
the servers can locate each other using RightScale machine tags. The load
balancer servers have tags of the form "loadbalancer:lb=APPLISTENER_NAME" where
APPLISTENER_NAME is the name of the application that the application servers are
serving; the application server attach and detach recipes use this machine tag
to request that corresponding handler recipes are run on the matching load
balancers when they need to attach or detach. The application servers have tags
of the form "loadbalancer:app=APPLISTENER_NAME", "server:uuid=UUID", and
"loadbalancer:backend_ip=IP_ADDRESS" where APPLISTENER is the same application
name, UUID is a unique string that identifies the server, and IP_ADDRESS is the
IP address of the server; the automatic detection recipe for the load balancer
servers use these tags to find which application servers are currently
available. This mechanism was chosen to support machines in multiple
availability zones where in the case of failures, load balancers and application 
servers may start while some machines, including RightScale, are not reachable 
and thus the configuration cannot be fully determined. For this reason, the automatic 
detection recipe is configured to run every 15 minutes by default.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale managed RightImage

== SETUP:

By default load balancer has only one pool called "default", which act as a default pool for
all application servers which has "loadbalancer::app=default" tag.
To setup multiple pools configuration, lb/pools input value must be overridden with
comma-separated list of URIs or FQDNs for which the load balancer will create server 
pools to answer website requests.
Last entry will be the default backend and will answer for all URIs and FQDNs
not listed in lb/pools input.
Any combination of URIs or FQDNs or web root relative path can be entered.

Application servers can provide any numbers of URIs or FQDNs to join corresponding 
server pool backends.

== USAGE:

=== Application Server Attach

==== do_attach_request

This recipe is used by application servers to request that load balancer servers
configure themselves to attach to the application server. It requests that
servers with the "loadbalancer:lb=APPLISTENER_NAME" tag run the corresponding
'handle_attach' recipe. The recipe sends the server's IP address and instance UUID
as parameters to the remote recipe.

==== handle_attach recipes

This recipe is used by the load balancer servers to reconfigure HAProxy and
reload it, if necessary, when an application server requests to be attached. It
uses the IP address and instance UUID parameters it receives from the
'do_attach_request' recipe called on the application server to construct an
individual configuration file in the haproxy.d directory with the instance UUID
as the file name. If the file didn't exist before or if its contents change, the
main HAProxy configuration information and all of the files in the haproxy.d
directory are concatenated into the HAProxy configuration file and HAProxy is
restarted.

=== Application Server Detach

==== do_detach_request

This recipe is used by application servers to request that load balancer servers
configure themselves to detach from the application server. It request that
servers with the "loadbalancer:lb=APPLISTENER_NAME" tag run the corresponding
'handle_detach' recipe. The recipe sends the server's IP address and instance UUID
as parameters to the remote recipe.

==== handle_detach recipes

This recipe is used by the load balancer servers to reconfigure HAProxy and
reload it, if necessary, when an application server requests to be detached. It
uses the instance UUID parameter it receives from the 'do_attach_request' recipe
called on the application server to delete the corresponding file from the
haproxy.d directory which has the instance UUID as its file name. If the file
was deleted, the main HAProxy configuration information and all of the remaining
files in the haproxy.d directory are concatenated into the HAProxy configuration
file and HAProxy is restarted.

=== Automatic Server Detection

==== do_attach_all recipe

This recipe is used by the load balancer to automatically detect if application
servers have disappeared or reappeared without detaching or reattaching using the
other recipes. This recipe is set to run in the periodic reconverge which
defaults to a period of 15 minutes between runs. It uses the
"loadbalancer:app=APPLISTENER_NAME", "server:uuid=UUID", and
"loadbalancer:backend_ip=IP_ADDRESS" tags to get a list of all of the
application servers that are currently available and uses the list to create,
update, or delete individual server configuration files in the haproxy.d
directory depending on their current status. If any of the files in the
haproxy.d directory have been created, changed, or deleted, the main HAProxy
configuration and the new set of files in the haproxy.d directory are
concatenated into the HAProxy configuration file and HAProxy is restarted.

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

== LICENSE

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
