= RightScale Web Apache Cookbook

== DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook installs and configures an Apache2 web server.

== REQUIREMENTS:

Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Place the <tt>web_apache::install_server</tt> recipe into your runlist to set up the apache web server.
* Use the <tt>web_apache::setup_monitoring</tt> recipe to add apache monitoring options to your dashboard "Monitoring" tab.

== DETAILS:

=== General

The recipes in this cookbook are designed to perform basic operations on an apache web server.

=== Attributes:

Detailed cookbook attributes descriptions you can find in attributed/default.rb file

=== Templates:

* <tt>apache.conf.erb</tt> - Configuration for apache vhost file.
* <tt>apache_collectd_exec.erb</tt> - Collectd exec plugin configuration template.
* <tt>apache_collectd_plugin.conf.erb</tt> - Collectd status plugin configuration template.
* <tt>apache_ssl_vhost.erb</tt> - Configuration for apache ssl vhost file.
* <tt>apache_status.conf.erb</tt> - Configuration for apache status information access.
* <tt>ssl_certificate.erb</tt> - Apache ssl certificate path template.
* <tt>ssl_certificate_chain.erb</tt> - Apache ssl certificate chain path template.
* <tt>ssl_key.erb</tt> - Apache ssl key template.
* <tt>sysconfig_httpd.erb</tt> - Configuration file template for the apache service.

== LICENSE

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
