= RightScale App Django Cookbook

== DESCRIPTION:

* Cookbook provides Apache + Django implementation of the 'app' LWRP.
* Installs and configures, Apache + Django application servers.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires "app" Lightweight resource cookbook https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks/tree/master/cookbooks/app
  or your own implementation of the "app" resource. See "app" cookbook README for details.
* Requires a VM launched from a RightScale managed RightImage
* Tested on CentOS 6.2 RightImage

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>rightscale</tt>
* <tt>web_apache</tt>
* <tt>repo</tt>
* <tt>logrotate</tt>
* <tt>app</tt>
* <tt>db</tt>
* <tt>python</tt>

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Place <tt>app_django::default</tt> recipe into your runlist to set up the application
  server. Since this sets up the app provider, it must be run before the
  <tt>app::default</tt> recipe, which expects a provider to already be set.
* When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, this will also automatically add the
  common attributes to your ServerTemplate inputs.

== DETAILS:

=== General:

The <tt>app_django</tt> cookbook will install and set up an Apache + Django application server configured to connect with a MySQL or Postgres database server.

<b>Apache</b>

Server version: Apache/2.2.15

Server built: Feb 13 2012 22:31:42

<b>Django</b>

Django version 1.4

Python version 2.6.6 (2012-06-18) (x86_64-linux), Pip version 1.1

also:
* <tt>Custom python command input</tt>
* <tt>Bundler support</tt>
* <tt>Input for user defined python module installation</tt>
* <tt>Application code installation from remote git, svn or Remote Object Store (ROS) location</tt>
* <tt>MySQL or Postgres database connection file configuration</tt>
* <tt>Automatic application vhost file configuration</tt>
* <tt>Automatic logrotate file configuration for Apache logs</tt>

For more info see: http://support.rightscale.com/18-Release_Notes/ServerTemplates_and_RightImages/2012-01-05#Apache-Django_App_Server_-_Beta

ServerTemplate built on this cookbook can be combined in two modes:

1 - For apps with bundler support, keep the "requirements.txt" file under application ROOT directory, and
"run_custom_python_commands" for migration commands

2 - For apps without bundler support, provide package(s) name as user input while server launch, and
"run_custom_python_commands" for migration commands

Note: If wants to install custom python packages for django app server, one need to re-run the app::default boot recipe in operational mode.

Mix these recipes in any way to satisfy project requirements.

=== Attributes:
These are settings used in recipes and templates. Default values are noted.

Note: Only "internal" cookbook attributes are described here. Descriptions of attributes which have inputs you can find in metadata.rb cookbook file.

====== General attributes
* <tt>node[:app_django][:module_dependencies]</tt> - Modules required for Apache.
* <tt>node[:app_django][:apache][:serve_local_files]</tt> - Used to enable/disable the serve of any existing local files.
* <tt>node[:app_django][:deploy_dir]</tt> - Path in the specified repository where application code will be pulled from.
* <tt>node[:app_django][:project][:opt_pip_list]</tt> - A list of additional python packages, required for django application
* <tt>node[:app_django][:project][:custom_cmd]</tt> - A list of python commands required for django application initialization.

====== Platform dependent
* <tt>node[:app][:user]</tt> -  Apache user. Required for changing owner of created project dirs.
* <tt>node[:app_django][:apache][:log_dir]</tt> - Path to apache log directory.

=== Templates:

* <tt>apache_mod_wsgi_vhost.erb</tt> - Configuration for apache vhost file used in the <tt>app::setup_vhost</tt> recipe
  and defined in <tt>:setup_vhost</tt> action of the <tt>app_django</tt> LWRP.
* <tt>wsgi.py.erb</tt> - Configuration for Apache-Django WSGI config file used in the <tt>app::setup_vhost</tt> recipe
  and defined in <tt>:setup_vhost</tt> action of the <tt>app_django</tt> LWRP.
* <tt>settings.py.erb</tt> - Rename django "settings.py" file under app root to "settings_default.py", configure new "settings.py" file
  for project database connection used in the <tt>app::setup_db_connection</tt> recipe
  and defined in <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt> action of the <tt>app_django</tt> LWRP.

=== Definitions:
none

=== Libraries-helpers:
none


=== LWRPs:

<tt>app_django</tt> Lightweight provider is defined in the providers/default.rb file, it contains source for the following actions:

* <tt>:install</tt>

* <tt>:setup_vhost</tt>

* <tt>:start</tt>

* <tt>:stop</tt>

* <tt>:restart</tt>

* <tt>:reload</tt>

* <tt>:code_update</tt>

* <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt>

For more info about these actions, please see the <tt>app</tt> cookbook README.

For normal operations it requires "app" resource which will act as the interface to all <tt>app_django</tt> provider logic.

===== Actions

* <tt>:install</tt> - Install packages required for application server setup.

* <tt>:setup_vhost</tt> - Set up apache vhost file with wsgi module directives included.

* <tt>:start</tt> - Start sequence for Django application server.

* <tt>:stop</tt> - Stop sequence for Django application server.

* <tt>:reload</tt> - Reload sequence for Django application server.

* <tt>:restart</tt> - Restart sequence for Django application server.

* <tt>:code_update</tt> - Perform project source code update/download using user selected "repo" LWRP. Set up logrotate configuration.

* <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt> - Perform project settings.py database connection configuration.

===== Usage Example:

For usage examples please see corresponding section in <tt>app</tt> cookbook README.

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
