cookbooks/chef/README.md, before:

# RightScale Chef Server and Client Cookbook

## DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook is available at [https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks](https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks).

This cookbook provides recipes for setting up and running a Chef Client.

## REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires a VM launched from a RightScale managed RightImage

* Tested on the following RightImages: CentOS 6.3, Ubuntu 12.04

* Tested Chef Client version 10.24.0-1

## COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see `metadata.rb` file for the latest dependencies.
* `rightscale`

## KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

## SETUP/USAGE:

* When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, place `chef::install_client`
  recipe into your runlist to setup the Chef Client. Set server_url,
  validator_pem and validation_name to match the Chef Server configuration.

* Set inputs reconverge_list to the value `chef::do_client_converge` and
  interval to minutes.

For more info see: [Release Notes](http://support.rightscale.com/18-Release_Notes/ServerTemplates_and_RightImages/v13.4#Chef_Client_\(v13.4\))

## DETAILS:

### General

The cookbook installs the Chef Client with needed configuration for CentOS and
Ubuntu.

### Attributes:

These are the settings used in recipes and templates. Default values are noted.
* `node[:chef][:client][:version]`-
  The package version. Default: "10.24.0-1"
* `node[:chef][:client][:config_dir]`-
  The Chef Client config directory. Default: "/etc/chef"
* `node[:chef][:client][:server_url]`-
  The url to connect to the remote Chef Server.
* `node[:chef][:client][:validator_pem]`-
  Private ssh key to register the Chef Client with the Chef Server.
* `node[:chef][:client][:validation_name]`-
  Validation name, along with the private ssh key, is used to determine whether
  the Chef Client may register with the Chef Server. The validation_name
  located on the Server and in the Client configuration file must match.
* `node[:chef][:client][:node_name]`-
  The node's name to register on the Chef Server.
* `node[:chef][:client][:roles]`-
  Comma separated list of roles which will be applied to this instance. Roles
  should be defined on the Chef Server else recipe will fail.
* `node[:chef][:client][:environment]`-
  The Chef Server environment name. By default the Chef Client environment
  variable is set to "_default".
* `node[:chef][:client][:company]`-
  Company name to be set in the Client configuration file. This attribute is
  applicable for Opscode Hosted Chef Server. The company name specified in both
  the Server and the Client configuration file must match.
* `node[:chef][:client][:runlist_override]`-
  A custom JSON string to be added to the first run of chef-client.
* `node[:chef][:client][:log_level]`-
  the level of logging that will be stored in the log file. Default: info.
* `node[:chef][:client][:log_location]`-
  the location of the log file. Default: /var/log/chef-client.log
* `node[:chef][:client][:data_bag_secret]`-
  secret key used to encrypt data bag items.

### Templates:

* `client.rb.erb`-
  The Chef Client configuration file. Used in `chef::install_client` recipe.
* `validation_key.erb`-
  Private SSH key which will be used to authenticate the Chef Client on the
  remote Chef Server. Used in `chef::install_client` and
  `chef::do_client_converge` recipes.
* `runlist.json.erb`-
  The Chef Client runlist.json file. Defined in setup_runlist definition and
  used in `chef::install_client` and `chef::do_client_converge` recipes.

### Usage Example:

## Update and execute runlist.

* `chef::do_client_converge`
  This recipe is used in the operational phase only. It runs runlist from file.
  To update the roles user can provide new roles as input and run the recipe.
  Roles to be used should be available on the Chef Server.

## Chef Client Reconvergence

* `sys::do_reconverge_list_enable`
  This recipe is used in the boot and operational phase. It starts a periodic
  reconverge.

* `sys::do_reconverge_list_disable`
  This recipe is used in the operational phase. It stops a periodic reconverge.

## LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
All access and use subject to the RightScale Terms of Service available at
http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and, if applicable, other agreements
such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.

Commit message:

Improve readme for node_name input

cookbooks/chef/README.md, after:

# RightScale Chef Server and Client Cookbook

## DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook is available at [https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks](https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks).

This cookbook provides recipes for setting up and running a Chef Client.

## REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires a VM launched from a RightScale managed RightImage

* Tested on the following RightImages: CentOS 6.3, Ubuntu 12.04

* Tested Chef Client version 10.24.0-1

## COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see `metadata.rb` file for the latest dependencies.
* `rightscale`

## KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

## SETUP/USAGE:

* When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, place `chef::install_client`
  recipe into your runlist to setup the Chef Client. Set server_url,
  validator_pem and validation_name to match the Chef Server configuration.

* Set inputs reconverge_list to the value `chef::do_client_converge` and
  interval to minutes.

For more info see: [Release Notes](http://support.rightscale.com/18-Release_Notes/ServerTemplates_and_RightImages/v13.4#Chef_Client_\(v13.4\))

## DETAILS:

### General

The cookbook installs the Chef Client with needed configuration for CentOS and
Ubuntu.

### Attributes:

These are the settings used in recipes and templates. Default values are noted.
* `node[:chef][:client][:version]`-
  The package version. Default: "10.24.0-1"
* `node[:chef][:client][:config_dir]`-
  The Chef Client config directory. Default: "/etc/chef"
* `node[:chef][:client][:server_url]`-
  The url to connect to the remote Chef Server.
* `node[:chef][:client][:validator_pem]`-
  Private ssh key to register the Chef Client with the Chef Server.
* `node[:chef][:client][:validation_name]`-
  Validation name, along with the private ssh key, is used to determine whether
  the Chef Client may register with the Chef Server. The validation_name
  located on the Server and in the Client configuration file must match.
* `node[:chef][:client][:node_name]`-
  The node's name to register on the Chef Server.
  Valid node name must contain only alpabetic, numeric and `.-_:` characters.
  The other characters will be removed. If nothing is specified, the instance
  FQDN will be used. Example: chef-client-host1
* `node[:chef][:client][:roles]`-
  Comma separated list of roles which will be applied to this instance. Roles
  should be defined on the Chef Server else recipe will fail.
* `node[:chef][:client][:environment]`-
  The Chef Server environment name. By default the Chef Client environment
  variable is set to "_default".
* `node[:chef][:client][:company]`-
  Company name to be set in the Client configuration file. This attribute is
  applicable for Opscode Hosted Chef Server. The company name specified in both
  the Server and the Client configuration file must match.
* `node[:chef][:client][:runlist_override]`-
  A custom JSON string to be added to the first run of chef-client.
* `node[:chef][:client][:log_level]`-
  the level of logging that will be stored in the log file. Default: info.
* `node[:chef][:client][:log_location]`-
  the location of the log file. Default: /var/log/chef-client.log
* `node[:chef][:client][:data_bag_secret]`-
  secret key used to encrypt data bag items.

### Templates:

* `client.rb.erb`-
  The Chef Client configuration file. Used in `chef::install_client` recipe.
* `validation_key.erb`-
  Private SSH key which will be used to authenticate the Chef Client on the
  remote Chef Server. Used in `chef::install_client` and
  `chef::do_client_converge` recipes.
* `runlist.json.erb`-
  The Chef Client runlist.json file. Defined in setup_runlist definition and
  used in `chef::install_client` and `chef::do_client_converge` recipes.

### Usage Example:

## Update and execute runlist.

* `chef::do_client_converge`
  This recipe is used in the operational phase only. It runs runlist from file.
  To update the roles user can provide new roles as input and run the recipe.
  Roles to be used should be available on the Chef Server.

## Chef Client Reconvergence

* `sys::do_reconverge_list_enable`
  This recipe is used in the boot and operational phase. It starts a periodic
  reconverge.

* `sys::do_reconverge_list_disable`
  This recipe is used in the operational phase. It stops a periodic reconverge.

## LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
All access and use subject to the RightScale Terms of Service available at
http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and, if applicable, other agreements
such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
