= RightScale System DNS cookbook

== DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook provides a set of dynamic DNS recipes used by RightScale ServerTemplates including Database Manager
ServerTemplates.

-------------

== REQUIREMENTS:

* An account with the desired DNS service provider
* DNS A record’s created external to this cookbook.

-------------

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

-------------

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

Currently only the first private IP address can be set.

-------------

== SETUP/USAGE:

Place <tt>sys_dns::default</tt> recipe into your runlist to setup the dynamic DNS provider resource. 
This will install the support tools and chef providers for the dynamic DNS provider selected by the
“DNS Service Provider” input. When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, this will automatically add the common DNS service
provider attributes to your ServerTemplate inputs. Place <tt>sys_dns::do_set_private</tt> recipe in your runlist.
This will set the DNS record identified by the “DNS Record ID” ServerTemplate input to the first private IP address
of the instance.
-------------

== DETAILS:

=== General

Cookbook currently supports CloudDNS, DNSMadeEasy, DynDns, and Amazon Route53 DNS service providers.
A new chef provider can be created to add support for additional dynamic DNS service providers.

For additional information:
  http://support.rightscale.com/03-Tutorials/02-AWS/02-Website_Edition/2._Deployment_Setup/4._Domain_Setup

-------------

=== Attributes:

These are settings used in recipes and templates. Default values are noted.

* <tt>node[sys_dns][choice]</tt> - The name of your DNS provider.
* <tt>node[sys_dns][id]</tt> - The unique identifier that is associated with the DNS A record of the server.
* <tt>node[sys_dns][user]</tt> - The user name that is used to access and modify your DNS A records.
* <tt>node[sys_dns][password]</tt> - The password that is used to access and modify your DNS A records.
* <tt>node[sys_dns][region]</tt> - CloudDNS specific: region where the A records should be modified.

-------------

=== Libraries-helpers:

Use this section only if your cookbook contains any libraries. 
Give complete description of library purpose and functionality. 
Provide examples of how it is used in recipes.

==== Example:

<b>RightScale::DnsTools::CloudDNS.new(Chef::Log).action_set(id, user, password, address, region)</b>
<b>RightScale::DnsTools::DME.new(Chef::Log).action_set(id, user, password, address)</b>
<b>RightScale::DnsTools::DynDNS.new(Chef::Log).action_set(id, user, password, address)</b>
<b>RightScale::DnsTools::AWS.new(Chef::Log).action_set(id, user, password, address)</b>

Return the result of A record update process.

Parameters:

* <tt>id::</tt> The unique identifier that is associated with the DNS A record of the server.
* <tt>user::</tt> The user name that is used to access and modify your DNS A records.
* <tt>password::</tt> The password that is used to access and modify your DNS A records.
* <tt>address::</tt> Private IP of instance running the recipe.
* <tt>region::</tt> CloudDNS specific: region where the A records should be modified.

Returns:

<tt>Chef::Log::</tt> A record successful update message.

Raise:

<tt>Chef::Log::</tt> Error message that may have occurred during the update process.

-------------

=== LWRPs:

The 'set_private' interface is defined by a Lightweight Resource, which can be found in the resources/default.rb file.

Used to pass data to the helper file and call the corresponding dns provider. 

For more information about Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRPs), please see:
http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Chef_Cookbooks_Developer_Guide/08-Chef_Development/Lightweight_Resources_and_Providers_(LWRP)

==== Example:

Common attributes

* <tt>:id</tt> - The unique identifier that is associated with the DNS A record of the server.
* <tt>:user</tt> - The user name that is used to access and modify your DNS A records.
* <tt>:password</tt> - The password that is used to access and modify your DNS A records.
* <tt>:address</tt> - Private IP of instance running the recipe.
* <tt>:region</tt> - CloudDNS specific: region where the A records should be modified.
* <tt>:choice</tt> - One of the supported DNS providers: "DNSMadeEasy" / "DynDNS" / "Route53" / "CloudDNS"

==== Example:

<b>Update Action</b>

To update A record with servers' private ip:

  sys_dns "default" do
    id node[:db][:dns][:slave][:id]
    address private_ip
    action :set_private
  end

-------------

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
