= RightScale System Cookbook 

== DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook provides recipes for setting up a server for RightScale. This
includes setting up the running of periodic recipes and setting up swap.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Place the <tt>sys::default</tt> recipe into the boot recipes to have your
  server set up with any periodic recipes from the inputs.
* Place the <tt>sys::setup_swap</tt> recipe into the boot recipes to set up
  swap on your server. You may wish to use ephemeral storage for swap, in that
  case you should include the <tt>block_device::setup_ephemeral</tt> recipe
  before it.
* You can disable and enable the periodic recipes running by running the
  <tt>sys::do_reconverge_list_disable</tt> and
  <tt>sys::do_reconverge_list_enable</tt> recipes.

== DETAILS:

=== System Consistency (re-convergence)

To reconverge the system so it is in the desired state this recipe
is run by default every 15 minutes.

To start a periodic reconverge:

  sys_reconverge "mycookbook::myrecipe"

To stop a periodic reconverge:

  sys_reconverge "mycookbook::myrecipe" do
    action :disable
  end

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
