= RightScale System Firewall Cookbook 

== DESCRIPTION:

Built upon the Opscode iptables cookbook, this cookbook provides a LWRP for
managing access to multiple servers in a deployment using machine tags.

== REQUIREMENTS:

Requires a VM launched from a RightScale managed RightImage .

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Use the <tt>sys_firewall::default</tt> recipe in conjunction with the
  'Firewall' input to enable or disable iptables.
* Use the <tt>sys_firewall::setup_rule</tt> recipe for enabling/disabling
  specific ports.
* Use the <tt>sys_firewall::do_list_rules</tt> recipe to list the existing
  firewall rules set up on the server.

== DETAILS:

=== General information
When the firewall is enabled it is completely closed for incoming connections - only outbound connections are allowed.
<tt>sys_firewall::default</tt> then opens 22, 80 and 443 ports by default (additionally on softlayer 48000..48020 ports
are opened on the private 10.* network for the monitoring agent).

=== Updating firewall rules using tags

All tag based actions are scoped to the deployment.

==== Update Action

To open a local port to all servers with a given tag use:

  sys_firewall "Open this database's ports to all app servers" do
    machine_tag "appserver:active=true"
    port 3306
    enable true
    action :update
  end
  
This can be useful as a server is booting to open up access for multiple systems
at once.

==== Update Request Action

To request all servers with a given tag close a port to a given IP address use:

  sys_firewall "Request all app servers close ports to this load balancer" do
    machine_tag "loadbalancer:app=www"
    port 8000
    enable false
    ip_addr node[:cloud][:private_ips][0]
    action :update_request
  end
  
This can be useful when decommissioning a running server that had previously
requested ports opened.

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
