= RightScale "repo_svn" Provider

== DESCRIPTION:

Provides the Subversion implementation of the 'repo' resource to
manage source code downloaded from Subversion repositories.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires the 'repo' Lightweight Resource cookbook https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks/tree/master/cookbooks/repo or your own implementation of "repo" resource. See "repo" cookbook README for details.
* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale-managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>rightscale</tt>
* <tt>repo</tt>

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Provider will be automatically initialized when you add "repo:default" recipe to your ServerTemplate runlist
* Once setup, use the recipes in the 'repo' cookbook to install and manage your code repo.
  See the 'repo' cookbook's README.rdoc for usage details.
* Select 'repo_svn' option in repo/default/provider input.
* To perform correct operations, values for the 'repo/url', and 'repo/branch' inputs must be provided.
* To retrieve source code from private svn repositories you must provide values for the 'repo/default/svn_password' and 'repo/default/svn_username' inputs for authentication purposes.

== DETAILS:

=== General

The 'repo_svn' implementation can be called with the help of the Lightweight Resource, which can be
found in the <tt>repo</tt> cookbook.

For more about Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRPs), please see
{Lightweight Resources and Providers}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Chef_Cookbooks_Developer_Guide/04-Developer/06-Development_Resources/Lightweight_Resources_and_Providers_(LWRP)].

=== LWRPs:

The <tt>repo_svn</tt> provider is defined in the providers/default.rb file and contains source code for the <tt>:pull</tt> and <tt>:capistrano_pull</tt> actions.
For more info about these actions please see <tt>repo</tt> cookbook's README.

The <tt>repo_svn</tt> provider allows the retrieval of source code from Subversion remote repositories.
It supports repositories with public and private (username/password protected) access.

For normal operations, it requires "repo" resource, which acts as interface to all <tt>repo_svn</tt> provider logic.

===== Actions:
<tt>:pull</tt>
Standard repo pull. Pull source code from a remote repository by specifying its location with a URL.

<tt>:capistrano_pull</tt>
Perform standard pull and then a capistrano deployment style will be applied.

===== Usage Example:

For usage examples, please see corresponding section in <tt>repo</tt> cookbook's README.

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
