= RightScale App Passenger Cookbook

== DESCRIPTION:

* Cookbook provides Apache + Passenger implementation of the 'app' LWRP.
* Installs and configures, Apache + Passenger application servers.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires "app" Lightweight resource cookbook https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks/tree/master/cookbooks/app
  or your own implementation of the "app" resource. See "app" cookbook README for details.
* Requires a VM launched from a RightScale managed RightImage

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>rightscale</tt>
* <tt>web_apache</tt>
* <tt>repo</tt>
* <tt>app</tt>
* <tt>db</tt>

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Place <tt>app_passenger::default</tt> recipe into your runlist to set up the application
  server. Since this sets up the app provider, it must be run before the
  <tt>app::default</tt> recipe, which expects a provider to already be set.
* When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, this will also automatically add the
  common attributes to your ServerTemplate inputs.

== DETAILS:

=== General:

The <tt>app_passenger</tt> cookbook will install and set up an Apache + Phusion Passenger application server configured to connect with a MySQL or Postgres database server.

<b>Apache</b>

Server version: Apache/2.2.3

Server built: Jun 6 2012 10:00:42

<b>Phusion Passenger</b>

Phusion Passenger version 3.0.12

also:
* <tt>Rails spawn method input</tt>
* <tt>Custom rails command input</tt>
* <tt>Bundler support</tt>
* <tt>Input for user defined gems installation</tt>
* <tt>Application code installation from remote git, svn or Remote Object Store (ROS) location</tt>
* <tt>MySQL or Postgres database connection file configuration</tt>
* <tt>Automatic application vhost file configuration</tt>

For more info see: {Release Notes}[http://support.rightscale.com/18-Release_Notes/ServerTemplates_and_RightImages/current] (Section 'Apache-Rails-Passenger App Server' under ServerTemplates)

Please checkout the tutorial: {Apache-Rails-Passenger App Server}[http://support.rightscale.com/03-Tutorials/Apache-Rails-Passenger_App_Server]

ServerTemplate built on this cookbook can be combined in two modes:

1 - For apps with bundler support, add the "install_required app gems" recipe, and
"run_custom_rails_commands" for migration commands

2 - For apps without bundler support, add "install_custom_gems" recipe, and
"run_custom_rails_commands" for migration commands

Mix these recipes in any way to satisfy project requirements.

=== Attributes:
These are settings used in recipes and templates. Default values are noted.

Note: Only "internal" cookbook attributes are described here. Descriptions of attributes which have inputs you can find in metadata.rb cookbook file.

====== General attributes
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:rails_spawn_method]</tt> - The spawn method used by the passenger.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:apache][:maintenance_page]</tt> - Path to html maintenance page, which will be displayed, when main application is unavailable.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:apache][:serve_local_files]</tt> - Used to enable/disable the serve of any existing local files.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:deploy_dir]</tt> - Path in the specified repository where application code will be pulled from.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:ruby_gem_base_dir]</tt> - Path to Ruby gem directory.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:gem_bin]</tt> - Path to Ruby gem bin directory.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:ruby_bin]</tt> - Path to Ruby bin directory.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:project][:environment]</tt> - The environment of the rails application.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:project][:gem_list]</tt> - A list of additional gems required for rails application.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:project][:custom_cmd]</tt> - A list of rake commands required for rails application initialization.

====== Platform dependent

* <tt>node[:app][:user]</tt> - Apache user. Required for changing owner of created project dirs.
* <tt>node[:app_passenger][:apache][:log_dir]</tt> - Path to apache log directory.

=== Templates:

* <tt>basic_vhost.erb</tt> - Configuration for apache vhost file used in the <tt>app::setup_vhost</tt> recipe and defined in <tt>:setup_vhost</tt> action of the <tt>app_passenger</tt> LWRP.
* <tt>database.yml.erb</tt> - Configuration for project database connection config file used in the <tt>app::setup_db_connection</tt> recipe and defined in <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt> action of the <tt>app_passenger</tt> LWRP.
* <tt>rails_env.erb</tt> - Template for bash script which will set up ENV for the rails project used in the <tt>app::setup_db_connection</tt> recipe and defined in <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt> action of the <tt>app_passenger</tt> LWRP.

=== Definitions:
none

=== Libraries-helpers:
none


=== LWRPs:

<tt>app_passenger</tt> Lightweight provider is defined in the providers/default.rb file, it contains source for the following actions:

* <tt>:install</tt>

* <tt>:setup_vhost</tt>

* <tt>:start</tt>

* <tt>:stop</tt>

* <tt>:reload</tt>

* <tt>:restart</tt>

* <tt>:code_update</tt>

* <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt>

For more info about these actions, please see the <tt>app</tt> cookbook README.

For normal operations it requires "app" resource which will act as the interface to all <tt>app_passenger</tt> provider logic.

===== Actions

* <tt>:install</tt> - Install packages required for application server setup.

* <tt>:setup_vhost</tt> - Set up apache vhost file with passenger module directives included.

* <tt>:start</tt> - Start sequence for Passenger application server.

* <tt>:stop</tt> - Stop sequence for Passenger application server.

* <tt>:reload</tt> - Reload sequence for Passenger application server.

* <tt>:restart</tt> - Restart sequence for Passenger application server.

* <tt>:code_update</tt> - Perform project source code update/download using user selected "repo" LWRP. Set up logrotate configuration.

* <tt>:setup_db_connection</tt> - Perform project config/database.yml database connection configuration.

===== Usage Example:

For usage examples please see corresponding section in <tt>app</tt> cookbook README.

== LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
