= RightScale "repo_ros" Provider

== DESCRIPTION:

Provides the Remote Object Store implementation of the 'repo' resource to
manage source code download from Remote Object Store repositories.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires the 'repo' Lightweight Resource cookbook https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks/tree/master/cookbooks/repo or your own implementation of "repo" resource. See "repo" cookbook README for details.
* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale-managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>repo</tt>

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

Cookbook only supports the retrieval of code from Amazon S3 and Rackspace Cloud Files.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Provider will automatically be initialized when you add the <tt>repo:default</tt> recipe to your ServerTemplate's runlist.

* Once setup, use the recipes in the 'repo' cookbook to install and manage how application code will be retrieved from ROS locations.
  See the 'repo' cookbook's README.rdoc for usage details.

* Select 'repo_ros' option in the repo/default/provider input.

To access to Remote Object Store repositories all inputs shown below must be filled.
* repo/default/storage_account_provider
* repo/default/container
* repo/default/prefix
* repo/default/storage_account_id
* repo/default/storage_account_secret

More detailed input descriptions can be found in the 'repo' cookbook's README.rdoc.

== DETAILS:

=== General

The 'repo_ros' implementation can be called with help from the Lightweight Resource, which can be
found in the <tt>repo</tt> cookbook.

For more information about Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRPs), please see {Lightweight Resources and Providers}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Chef_Cookbooks_Developer_Guide/08-Chef_Development/Lightweight_Resources_and_Providers_(LWRP)]

=== LWRPs:

The <tt>repo_ros</tt> provider is defined in providers/default.rb file and contains source code for <tt>:pull</tt> and <tt>:capistrano_pull</tt> actions.
For more information about these actions please see the <tt>repo</tt> cookbook's README.

The <tt>repo_ros</tt> provider allows the retrieval of source code from Amazon S3 and Rackspace Cloud Files ROS remote repositories.

For normal operations it requires the "repo" resource, which acts as the interface to all <tt>repo_ros</tt> provider logic.

===== Actions:

<tt>:pull</tt>
Standard repository pull. Your source code repository will be pulled from the specified ROS remote repository to a specified destination on the local instance.

<tt>:capistrano_pull</tt>
Performs a standard repository pull plus a capistrano deployment style is applied.
* Standard Opscode chef capistrano implementation does not support ROS
* Downloaded ROS repository will be converted to a git repository
* Then the capistrano deployment will be applied using the <tt>capistranize</tt> definition
* Git attributes will be removed after everything is applied.


===== Usage Example:

For usage examples, please see the corresponding section in <tt>repo</tt> cookbook's README.

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
