= RightScale Memcached Server Template

== DESCRIPTION:
This cookbook provides recipes for setting up and running a Memcached server.

-------------

== REQUIREMENTS:
=== General

* Requires a VM launched from a RightScale managed RightImage
* Tested on CentOS 5.6 RightImage
* Tested on RHEL 5.6 RightImage
* Tested on Ubuntu 10.04 RightImage

Implementation depends on <tt>rightscale</tt> and <tt>sys_firewall</tt> cookbooks.

-------------

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

* If you need memcached to listen on public interface must set to listen on any.

-------------

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Choose image and cloud.
* Fill required input fields.
* When using a RightScale ServerTemplate, use memcached::default recipe to automatically add the server tags.
* Place memcached::install_server recipe into your runlist to setup the memcached server.

-------------

== DETAILS:
=== General

The cookbook installs memcached with needed configuration for CentOS, Redhat and Ubuntu.
Opens lisnening port in systems' firewall, setups server tags, monitoring and log rotation.

-------------
=== Attributes:

These are the settings used in recipes and templates. Default values are noted.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:tcp_port]</tt> - TCP port number to listen on. Default is 11211.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:udp_port]</tt> - UDP port number to listen on. Default is 11211.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:user]</tt> - Username to run memcached. Default is nobody.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:connection_limit]</tt> - Number of simultaneous connections. Default is 1024.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:memtotal_percent]</tt> - Max memory to use for items. Default is 90.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:threads]</tt> - Number of threads. Default is 1.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:interface]</tt> - Interface to listen on. Default is any.
* <tt>node[:memcached][:log_level]</tt> - Memcached logging output level
* <tt>node[:memcached][:cluster_id]</tt> - Cluster assosiation string.

* <tt>node[:platform][:memcached][:config_file]</tt> - Location of memcached configuration file.
* <tt>node[:platform][:memcached][:iptables_rules]</tt> - Location of iptables.

-------------
=== Templates:

<b>memcached.conf.erb</b>

Memcached configuration file. Unique for CentOS and Ubuntu. Used is the <tt>memcached::install_server</tt> recipe.

<b>memcached_collectd.conf.erb</b>

Memcached collectd plugin template. Used is the <tt>memcached::install_server</tt> recipe.

-------------

= LICENSE
Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.