= RightScale "repo_rsync" Provider

== DESCRIPTION:

Provides the rsync implementation of the 'repo' resource to
manage source code downloaded via rsync.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Requires the 'repo' Lightweight Resource cookbook
https://github.com/rightscale/rightscale_cookbooks/tree/master/cookbooks/repo . See "repo" cookbook README for details.
* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale-managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>rightscale</tt>
* <tt>repo</tt>

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

* Provider will be automatically initialized when you add "repo:default" recipe
  to your ServerTemplate runlist

* Once set up, use the recipes in the 'repo' cookbook to manage downloading from
  your code repository. See the repo/README.rdoc for usage details.

* Select the 'repo_rsync' option for the repo/default/provider input.

* To perform correct operations, values for the repo/url and others must be provided.

* The repo/ssh_key input must contain a string with a valid SSH key or 'key'-type 
  variable from the RightScale dashboard.

== DETAILS:

=== General

The 'repo_rsync' implementation can be called with the help of the Lightweight Resource, which can be
found in the <tt>repo</tt> cookbook.

For more information about Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRPs), please see
{Lightweight Resources and Providers}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Chef_Cookbooks_Developer_Guide/08-Chef_Development/Lightweight_Resources_and_Providers_(LWRP)].

=== LWRPs:

The <tt>repo_rsync</tt> provider is defined in the <tt>providers/default.rb</tt> file, which contains source code for <tt>:pull</tt> and <tt>:capistrano_pull</tt> actions.
For more info about these actions please see the <tt>repo</tt> cookbook's README.

The <tt>repo_rsync</tt> provider allows the retrieval of source code via rsync.

For normal operations, it requires the 'repo' resource, which acts as the interface to all <tt>repo_rsync</tt> provider logic.

===== Actions:
<tt>:pull</tt>
Standard repository pull. Pull source code from a remote repository by specifying its location with a URL.

<tt>:capistrano_pull</tt>
Perform standard pull and then a capistrano deployment style will be applied.

===== Usage Example:

For usage examples, please see the corresponding section in <tt>repo</tt> cookbook's README.

= LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to the
RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php and,
if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription Agreement.
