= RightScale Logging

== DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook provides a set of recipes used by the RightScale
ServerTemplates to configure the logging service provider.

This cookbook configures the default logging provider installed on the image.
If a remote server is defined it will configure an instance to send its 
log messages to the specified remote server based on its FQDN or IP address.
If a remote server is not defined, the default configuration is used, which
saves the log files locally on the instance.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Must be used with a 'logging' provider in the cookbook path
* Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale-managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

* <tt>rightscale</tt>
* <tt>logging_rsyslog</tt>
* <tt>logging_syslog_ng</tt>

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

* Currently only supports the logging provider installed on the image. (rsyslog/syslog-ng)
* Cookbook supports client configuration for a single remote server using
  several protocols.
* Requires customer maintained remote server for remote logging.

== SETUP:

* Place <tt>logging::default</tt> recipe into your runlist to setup the logging resource. When
  using a RightScale ServerTemplate, this will also automatically configure
  logging service provider (rsyslog/syslog-ng). If a remote server is specified the default
  recipe will determine the logging provider installed (rsyslog/syslog-ng)
  and configure it for remote logging.
* To setup a logging server, place the following recipes in order to your runlist:

    logging_<provider>::setup_server
      sets up the logging provider.

    logging::install_server
      sets up generic server inputs and configures a logging server.

  For example: To set up and install an rsyslog logging server

    logging_rsyslog::setup_server
    logging::install_server

== USAGE:

1. Local Logging - Set the 'logging/remote_server' input to 'ignore' to use
   the default configuration installed.
2. Remote Logging - Set the 'logging/remote_server' input to the FQDN or IP of the
   designated remote logging server to adjust the default configuration to the remote
   logging configuration.
3. Transfer protocol - Set the 'logging/protocol' input to one of the listed options:
   1. UDP: the most generic and common-used option. UDP is the default logging protocol option.
   2. RELP: RELP stands for Reliable Event Logging Protocol.
      RELP ensures that no message is lost, not even when connections break and a peer becomes unavailable.
   3. RELP-secured: while using RELP to ensure a safe and loss-free transmission between two machines
      the traffic also gets encrypted with an SSL certificate the user should provide with the
      'logging/certificate' input. As stunnel is configured with the "verify = 3" option the server
      would require and verify the client certificate against the locally installed certificate
      providing client authentication.

== DETAILS:

=== General

The 'logging' interface is defined by a Lightweight Resource, which can be found in
the <tt>resources/default.rb</tt> file.

This cookbook is intended as a framework for logging providers. The current
implementation supports the minimum configuration for rsyslog and syslog-ng.

Note: This cookbook does not modify the installed logging provider.

For more information about Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRPs), please see: {Lightweight Resources and Providers}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Chef_Cookbooks_Developer_Guide/08-Chef_Development/Lightweight_Resources_and_Providers_(LWRP)]

=== Providers:

The current implementation does not support providers other than rsyslog and syslog-ng.

=== Custom Configuration:

By using an override cookbook the default configuration can be customized by replacing
the default configuration file template for the provider. For more information, 
please see: {Override Chef Cookbooks}[http://support.rightscale.com/12-Guides/Chef_Cookbooks_Developer_Guide/08-Chef_Development/Override_Chef_Cookbooks].

== LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
