= RightScale Cookbook

== DESCRIPTION:

This cookbook provides base recipes used to set up services used by the
RightScale Cloud Management Platform.

== REQUIREMENTS:

Requires a virtual machine launched from a RightScale managed RightImage.

== COOKBOOKS DEPENDENCIES:

Please see the <tt>metadata.rb</tt> file for the latest dependencies.

== KNOWN LIMITATIONS:

There are no known limitations.

== SETUP/USAGE:

The <tt>rightscale::default</tt> recipe performs common server configuration
steps such as enabling monitoring on an instance so that graphs cane be
displayed in the RightScale Dashboard.

The <tt>rightscale::install_tools</tt> recipe installs the
<tt>rightscale_tools</tt> gem which provides tools for dealing with databases,
volumes, and remote object storage providers.

== DETAILS:

=== Definitions:

==== rightscale_enable_collectd_plugin

* Accepts only one parameter "name" which is the name of the collectd plugin to
  enable.
* The plugin name is added to <tt>node[:rightscale][:plugin_list_array]</tt> which is used
  to create the list of plugins in the <tt>/etc/collectd/collectd.conf</tt>
  file.
* The <tt>node[:rightscale][:plugin_list_array]</tt> will have any plugins listed
  in the <tt>node[:rightscale][:plugin_list]</tt> merged into it, which 
  supports any legacy recipes, as well as allow the input to be manipulated in
  the RightScale Dashboard.

Syntax:

  rightscale_enable_collectd_plugin "curl_json"

==== rightscale_monitor_process

* Accepts only one parameter, "name" which is the name of the process to
  monitor.
* The process name is added to the <tt>node[:rightscale][:process_list_array]</tt>
  which is used to create the list of processes in the
  <tt>/etc/collectd/conf/processes.conf</tt> file.
* The <tt>node[:rightscale][:process_list_array]</tt> will have any processes
  listed in <tt>node[:rightscale][:process_list]</tt> merged into it, which supports
  any legacy recipes, as well as allow the input to be manipulated in the
  RightScale Dashboard.

Syntax:

  rightscale_monitor_process "nginx"

==== rightscale_marker

* Accepts only one parameter, "location" which can be used to denote 
  the :start or :end of a recipe. It can also be :begin, :stop, and 
  the string versions.
* Used to log the start and end of a recipe using the 'Chef::Log.info' Chef Logger class.
  Should be added at the beginning and end of a recipe.
* Example:
  `========================= cookbook_name::recipe_name : START/END =========================`

Syntax:

  rightscale_marker :start

  rightscale_marker :end

=== Resources:

==== rightscale_server_collection

The server collection resource finds a set of servers in a deployment with a set
of tags. The <tt>tags</tt> attribute specifies the tag or tags to search for (if
multiple tags are specified, servers with any of the tags will match) and the
optional <tt>mandatory_tags</tt> attribute specifies tags that need to also
appear on the servers, it will wait one minute for the <tt>mandatory_tags</tt>
to appear, which can be overridden with the <tt>timeout</tt> attribute.

Syntax:

  rightscale_server_collection "rightscale_servers" do
    tags "rs_login:state=active"
    mandatory_tags "server:uuid=*"
  end

NOTE: The resource also supports <tt>secondary_tags</tt> - duplicate of <tt>mandatory_tags</tt> attribute.
This attribute is deprecated, use <tt>mandatory_tags</tt> instead.


== LICENSE:

Copyright RightScale, Inc. All rights reserved.  All access and use subject to
the RightScale Terms of Service available at http://www.rightscale.com/terms.php
and, if applicable, other agreements such as a RightScale Master Subscription
Agreement.
